document allowed whitespace characters (#531)
neo4j/docs-cypher: modules/ROOT/pages/syntax/parsing.adoc

:description: This section describes whitespace in Cypher

[[parsing]]
= Parsing

[abstract]
--

> This section provides a general overview of how Cypher is parsing an input String, including whitespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section provides a general overview of how Cypher parses an input String, including whitespace.
```

--

> Cypher considers input Strings as a sequence of Unicode UTF-16 code points. Unicodes can generally be escaped as `\uxxx`.

Reviewer: I'm not that sure if they are utf-8 code points or utf-16 🤔. What makes you think they are utf-16?

Author: Hm....I stole this from GQL, but I agree it's not entirely clear to me, either. It looks like Java uses it's own representation.

Additional documentation on escaping rules for string literals, names and regular expressions can be found here:

* xref::syntax/expressions.adoc#cypher-expressions-string-literals[String literal escape sequences]
* xref::syntax/naming.adoc#symbolic-names-escaping-rules[Using special characters in names]
* xref::clauses/where.adoc#escaping-in-regular-expressions[Regular epxressions]

[[cypher-whitespaces]]
== Supported Whitespace

In Cypher, whitespace can be used as a separator between keywords but has no function otherwise.

The following characters are considered as whitespace:

[options="header", cols=">1,<2"]
|===
| Description                       | List of included Unicode Characters

> | Unicode General Category Zp       | \u2029

Reviewer: The rest of the tables, like https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/syntax/expressions/#cypher-expressions-string-literals, use monospaced font, i.e. use `u2029` instead of \u2029 please

| Unicode General Category Zs       | \u0020 (space), \u1680, \u2000-200A, \u202F, \u205F, \u3000
| Unicode General Category class Zl | \u2028
| Horizontal Tabulation             | \t, \u0009
| Line Feed                         | \n, \u000A
| Vertical Tabulation               | \u000B
| Form Feed                         | \f, \u000C
| Carriage Return                   | \r, \u000D
| File Separator                    | \u001C
| Group Separator                   | \u001D
| Record Separator                  | \u001E
| Unit Separator                    | \u001F

> |===

Reviewer: I would maybe add an example of a query including a unicode space?

[abstract]
--
This section provides a general overview of how Cypher parses an input String.
--

The Cypher parser takes an arbitrary input String.

> While the syntax of  Cypher is described in the following chapters,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the syntax of Cypher is described in the following chapters,
```

this chapter formulates the general rules on which characters are considered valid
as valid input.

== Using unicodes in Cypher
Unicodes can generally be escaped as `\uxxx`.

Additional documentation on escaping rules for string literals, names and regular expressions can be found here:

* xref::syntax/expressions.adoc#cypher-expressions-string-literals[String literal escape sequences]
* xref::syntax/naming.adoc#symbolic-names-escaping-rules[Using special characters in names]
* xref::clauses/where.adoc#escaping-in-regular-expressions[Regular epxressions]

The following example escapes the unicode character `A` (`\u0041`) in the keyword `MATCH`:
```
    M\u0041TCH (m) RETURN m;
```

> 

Reviewer: I don't think this is a good example because it's invalid syntax?

Author: I ran this parser test in Cypher and it works:
`  s"M\\u0041TCH (m) RETURN m"`

Do you have a better idea?

Reviewer: My bad, thought `u0041` was a space

Whitespace can be used as a separator between keywords and has no semantic meaning.
The following unicode characters are considered as whitespace:

[options="header", cols=">1,<2"]
|===
| Description                       | List of included Unicode Characters
| Unicode General Category Zp       | `\u2029`
| Unicode General Category Zs       | `\u0020` (space), `\u1680`, `\u2000-200A`, `\u202F`, `\u205F`, `\u3000`
| Unicode General Category class Zl | `\u2028`
| Horizontal Tabulation             | `\t`, `\u0009`
| Line Feed                         | `\n`, `\u000A`
| Vertical Tabulation               | `\u000B`
| Form Feed                         | `\f`, `\u000C`
| Carriage Return                   | `\r`, `\u000D`
| File Separator                    | `\u001C`
| Group Separator                   | `\u001D`
| Record Separator                  | `\u001E`
| Unit Separator                    | `\u001F`
|===

Having multiple whitespace characters in a row is allowed and
will have the same effect as using a single whitespace.

The following query uses vertical tabulation (`\u000B`) as whitespace between
the `RETURN` keyword and the variable m:

```
    MATCH (m) RETURN\u000Bm;

> ```

Reviewer: 👍
